# CarbonEmissionInfluencers
The aim is to inform and understand the range of influence financial/population demographics, green policies, and energy consumption statistics have on the rates of annual CO2 emissions in 2022 by states in the US.

Climate change is one of the most prevalent issues today, causing severe impacts on the planet and human societies. Primarily through the burning of fossil fuels, global temperatures are rising, oceans are acidifying, biodiversity and agriculture are being negatively impacted, and frequent and extreme weather events are causing significant damage to infrastructure and homes (Climate Change,2021). Urgent action is needed since the longer humanity waits to address climate change, the more complicated it will be to mitigate its impacts. It's essential to know where our country stands regarding climate change and if implementing any existing ideas can slow down the destruction of the environment. The aim of this project is to inform and understand the range of influence financial/population demographics, green policies, and energy consumption statistics have on the rates of annual CO2 emissions in 2022 by states in the US. Research questions include 1. "Do US states with more environmental policies and increased green tech adoption have a significantly lower rate of annual CO2 emission(How we can combat, 2019)?" 2. "Do US states with higher population demographics have increased levels of CO2 emission?" 3. "Do US states with individuals of higher average income have lower rates of annual CO2 emission in 2022?" The topic and questions are pertinent as unfortunately, climate change consequences are the result of human activities (fundamentally through the burning of fossil fuels). Our industrial pursuits release greenhouse gases, mainly carbon dioxide, into the atmosphere, which traps heat and causes global temperatures to rise. It’s an important subject as it’s a global issue that requires greater awareness and positive change. Lack of understanding or knowledge can lead to inaction and denial of the environmental matter at hand. 

## Data Summary
My data is a collection of 2022 statistics regarding the 50 U.S. states. It was mainly collected and aggregated in December 2022 to contain the entire year’s stats. The response variable, measuring annual rates of CO2 emissions per capita in metric tons, was recorded by the U.S. Energy Information Administration for analytical purposes for each state. To them, CO2 emissions included emissions from direct fuel use across all sectors, including commercial, residential, transportation, and industrial, as well as primary fuels consumed for electricity generation. My variables were chosen based on direct/indirect characteristics of states that could affect this response variable. One of the variables regarding environmental policies and increased green tech adoption is actually a climate change ranking of the states. Concerning carbon emissions, “1” represents the state ranking with the highest number of environmentally clean (green) policies, green tech adoption, and recycling rates totaled together. “50” represents the state with the lowest number of the three aspects mentioned above totaled together. For this explanatory variable, the metrics created/collected for analyzing the state rankings were done by the website WiseVoter. To inform and educate truthfully, they compiled their data from various primary sources including the U.S. Census Bureau, Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Department of Energy, and U.S. Geological Survey, to name a few. Moving on, the rest of the variables include population, average income, nominal GDP (millions of Dollars), and total energy consumed per capita (millions of Btu). These were collected by WorldPopulationReview.com, the U.S. Census Bureau, the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration, respectively. There are values for each of the 50 states, and the explanatory variables were chosen to see if they can gauge a trend for CO2 emissions by state. Average income and nominal GDP don’t necessarily directly affect climate change/CO2 emission rates, but further analysis may highlight important unseen tendencies between the two and the response variable. Overall, the data was collected for recording various individual state statistics to create an in-depth analysis of what can actually factor into annual CO2 emissions rates in the U.S.
